---
author: 
mtime: 
description: Past events and posts
created: 14 Feb 2013
---

Archived Announcements
----------------------

Please refer to the following link for current and past announcements.
It will launch in a new window. [Archived NYU Mathematics Society
Announcements ](http://lists.nyu.edu/read/?forum=mathclub)

Archived Colloquia & Events
---------------------------

To see the latest and upcoming Colloquia and Events, click on the
following link: [Home](http://math.nyu.edu/math_club/events.html).

### Past Colloquia & Events: Fall 2010

***Costume Party*** **WHEN:** Wednesday, October 27^th^, 2010 (7:00 PM -
9:00 PM) **WHERE:** Room 312, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps/place?cid=10569468169288053979&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&hl=en&cd=1&cad=src:pplink&ei=cdSUTJb8FqT6yAXKrZnxCA)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We have pizza and Halloween snacks. Everyone votes on
best costume. Winner gets prize. ***Youtube Night***
**WHEN:** Wednesday, September 29th, 2010 (7:00 PM - 9:00 PM)
**WHERE:** Room 312, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences **WHAT HAPPEN:** We spent time watching awesome
math-related though not necessarily YouTube videos. ***Ice breaker and
First General Meeting *** **WHEN:**Wednesday, September 22th, 2010 (7:00
PM - 9:00 PM) **WHERE:** Room 312, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute
of Mathematical Sciences **WHAT HAPPEN:** This is our first general
meeting of the Fall 2010 semester. Time for Icebreakers!

### Past Colloquia & Events: Spring 2010

***End Of The Year Party*** **WHEN:**Tuesday, April 27th, 2010 (7:00 PM
- 8:00 PM) **WHERE:** Room 317, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences **WHAT HAPPEN:** Because it's amazing how quickly
the semester flew by! I know we all have finals and such, but stop by
for an hour to munch on food and say goodbye to everyone for the summer!
Bid the graduating seniors farewell! Everyone can sacrifice an hour for
fun and remembering the good times! ***What Class Should I Take?***
**WHEN:**Tuesday, April 6th, 2010 (7:00 PM - 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room
317, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New
York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPENED:** We hosted a night full of advice about all of your
class inquiries! Plenty of upperclassmen were there to answer questions
and give helpful tips. ***Pi Day Celebration*** **WHEN:** Tuesday, March
9th, 2010 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room 317, Warren Weaver Hall,
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren
Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We had our annual Pi Day celebration. ***Happy Hour***
**WHEN:**Tuesday, February 23rd, 2010 (7:00 PM - 8:30 PM)
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPENED: Icebreakers!** ***COLLOQUIA BY DENNIS SHASHA - "UPSTART
PUZZLES"*** **WHEN:** Tuesday, February 16th, 2010 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM)
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN**: Abstract from Shaha - "The writer of puzzles often
invents puzzles to illustrate a principle. The puzzles, however,
sometimes have other ideas. They speak up and say that they would be so
much prettier as slight variants of their original selves. The dilemma
is that the puzzle inventor sometimes can't solve those variants.
Sometimes he finds out that his colleagues can't solve them either,
because there is no existing theory for solving them. At that point,
these sassy variants deserve to be called upstarts. We discuss a few
upstarts inspired originally from the Falklands/Malvinas Wars,
zero-knowledge proofs, hikers in Colorado, and city planning. They have
given a good deal of trouble to a certain mathematical detective who I
know well." ***Spring YouTube Night*** **WHEN:** Tuesday, February 2nd,
2010 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall,
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren
Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** For those who attended YouTube Night last semester
knows what it's all about - awesome math related YouTube videos to
boggle your mind and entertain you. Cookies, popcorn, chips, junk food,
and soda were served. ***First General Meeting of Spring 2010***
**WHEN:** Tuesday, January 26th, 2010 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM)
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** Our first general meeting of Spring 2010 opened up with
food and icebreakers.

### Past Colloquia & Events: Fall 2009

***Book Swap / Movie Night / Milk and Cookies*** **WHEN:** Tuesday,
December 1, 2009 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver
Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New York University:
Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We watched math-themed movies, have some milk and
cookies, and socialize. ***Colloquial By Professor Novikoff***
**WHEN:** Tuesday, November 17, 2009 (7:00 PM - 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room
202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New
York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**Abstract:**Professor Novikoff gave a wonderful talk. Key ideas at the
talk include: "linear, as in linear approximation, what this means in
one and two (real) dimensions, and in one (complex) dimension.
Surprising re-occurrence in Cauchy-Riemann equations. Nothing is assumed
from the audience, but "nothing" remains undefined." ***What Class
Should I Take?*** **WHEN:** Tuesday, November 10, 2009 (6:30 PM to 8:00
PM) **WHERE:** Room 312, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We held a peer-to-peer event about classes offered in
the Spring 2010 semester! Snacks were provided and there were
discussions on what the courses and professors are like! This is a great
opportunity to get insight from students who have already taken the
courses and to mingle with peers. The Undergraduate adviser, Jillian
Kerlin, stopped by to answer questions as well! Don't know whether to
take Algebra I or Analysis I first? Don't know if you should take them
together? Don't know what Transformations and Geometries is like? This
is the where you find out! ***Halloween Party*** **WHEN:** Tuesday,
October 27, 2009 (7:00 pm to 8:30 PM) **WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver
Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New York University:
Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We colored on pumpkins, ate pumpkin pie, and had an
awesome time. ***Jun Zhang On Fluid Transportation and Biological
Locomotion*** **WHEN: **Tuesday, October 20, 2009 (7:00 PM to 8:30 PM)
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**Abstract: ** Ratchets in fluid transportation and in biological
locomotion Dr. Zhang discussed several cases where a broken symmetry -
either broken spontaneously or by construction - leads to ratcheting
behavior in systems where dynamic boundaries interact with moving
fluids. Two examples feature reciprocal forcing combined with geometric
anisotropy of boundaries. In one case a solid body can be made to hover,
and in another, a fluid is efficiently pumped. He will also discuss the
dynamics of a symmetric wing whose "forward flight" follows from a
symmetry breaking instability, and how this dynamics is affected by the
introduction of more biological realism." ***Game Night***
**WHEN:** Tuesday, October 13, 2009 from 7pm to 8:30pm **WHERE:** Room
202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New
York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** Because everyone should know how to play Set. The
president and many of our members also brought own games, which includes
Snakes on a Sudoku - official game for Snakes on a Plane. ***Aaditya
Rangan on Neuroscience*** **WHEN:** Wednesday, September 30, 2009 from
7:00 pm to 8:30 pm **WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver
Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** An an introduction to neuroscience, including issues
under consideration in visual and olfactory neuroscience, and the
associated challenges. With discussion of some mathematical approaches
to neuroscience, and some perspective on the current limitations of such
approaches. This was a great talk and a wonderful opportunity to
experience some real applied mathematics. ***YouTube Night***
**WHEN:** Tuesday, September 22, 2009 from 7:00 PM - 8:30 PM
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** We came out to watch enlightening YouTube videos about
abstract, math, documentaries on great mathematicians, music videos, and
other informative, educational, and hysterical videos along with food
and drinks fit for movies. ***First General Meeting***
**WHEN:** Tuesday, September 15, 2009 from 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM
**WHERE:** Room 202, Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences [New York University: Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical
Sciences ](http://maps.google.com/maps?f=q&source=s_q&sll=37.0625-95.677068&hl=en&q=courant+institute+of+mathematical+Sciences&ie=UTF8&sspn=0.020294,0.038418&latlng=13928187982468122075&ei=3gigSteYNoPiygT_ibiuDw&cd=1&usq=Courant+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences&geocode=Fat1bQId9umW-w)
**WHAT HAPPEN:** This first meeting is a social event to welcome
everyone back to school as well as give new members a chance to mingle
with past members.

### Past Colloquia & Events: Spring 2009

***Tuesday, April 28^th^, 2009 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm*** **End of the
Academic Year Party** *Room 512 at Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute
of Mathematical Sciences* *Abstract:* The NYU Mathematics Society will
celebrate the end of the academic year and Spring 2009 semester with a
party. ***Thursday, April 23^rd^, 2009 6:00 pm - 8:00 pm*** **Courant
Institute's End-Of-The-Academic-Year PARTY!** *13th Floor Common Lounge
at Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences*
*Abstract:* Fellow students, colleagues, professors, Staff, NYU alumni,
and industry professionals celebrate Courant's alumni and industry
professionals from Google, IBM, Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs,
Bloomberg, ADACORE, Deloitte Consulting, Blackrock and other companies
who have collaborated and supported NYU students during the past year.
**Tuesday, April 21^st^ 7:00 pm - after 8:30 pm ** **Class Registration
Assistance** *Room 512 at Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of
Mathematical Sciences* *Abstract:* The current and future executive
board and fellow members met to create the constitution and make goals
and plans for next upcoming Fall 2009 semester. **Tuesday, April
14^th^ 7:00 pm - 8:30 pm ** **Class Registration Assistance** *Room 512
at Warren Weaver Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences*
*Abstract:* Assistance to choose math courses for Fall 2009 semester was
provided. **Tuesday, April 7^th^ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm ** **Colloquium by
Professor Oliver Bühler** *Room 512 at Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical Sciences* *Abstract:* Professor Bühler gave a
talk about his research on geophysical fluid dynamics, waves and
vortices in the atmosphere and oceans, statistical mechanics, sea ice
dynamics. **Tuesday, March 31^st^ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm ** **Colloquium:
Stationary Map Coloring By Dr. Ron Peled** *Room 512 at Warren Weaver
Hall, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences* *Abstract:* Dr. Peled
explained the 4 color theorem, which states that any planar map may be
properly colored using only 4 colors. **Tuesday, March 10^th^ 7:00 pm -
9:00 pm ** **Pi Day Celebration** *Room 512 (Warren Weaver Hall, Courant
Institute of Mathematical Sciences)* *Abstract:* The Mathematical
Society held a party to celebrate Pi Day. **Tuesday, March 3^rd^ 4:45 pm
- 6:00 pm ** **MUSCLE AND BLOOD: COMPUTER SIMULATION OF THE BEATING
HEART** *Room 808 (Silver Center of Arts and Science)*
*Speaker:* Charles S. Peskin *Abstract:* This exciting talk is about a
particular way of doing applied mathematics, by computer simulation. The
first step is to formulate equations of motion: In this case a system of
partial differential equations that describe the motion of blood in the
cardiac chambers driven by the muscular heart walls and made
unidirectional by the passive, elastic heart valves. The next step is to
devise a computational method, in this case the immersed boundary
method, to solve the equations of motion. The last step is the computer
simulation itself, which generates an animation of the beating heart.
**Tuesday, March 3^rd^ 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm ** **Paul's Research in Cardiac
Electrophysiology and How it Came About** *Room 512 (Warren Weaver Hall,
Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences)* *Speaker:* Paul Hand
*Abstract:* Paul Hand presented his research in cardiac
electrophysiology, which involves applied mathematics. **Tuesday,
February 10^th^, 2009 at 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM** **Mathy Happy Hour** *Room
512, Warren Weaver Hall * *Abstract: *The Mathematics Society will hold
a social event with fun, snacks, and drinks. This is part of the
Mathematics Society's initiative to build a stronger Math community.
**Tuesday, January 27^th^, 2009 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM** **Math Youtube
Night** *Room 512, Warren Weaver Hall * *Abstract: *The Mathematics
Society held a Youtube night full of very interesting videos of rare
Mathematics concepts and facts. **Tuesday, January 21^st^, 2009 7:00 PM
- 9:00 PM** **Research Seminar** *Room 201, Warren Weaver Hall *
*Abstract: *The Mathematics Society had a meeting to welcome everyone
back from Winter break with a great presentation from Jessica Lin and
Karol Koziol about undergraduate research opportunities. Our presenters
discussed REU programs and NYU's SURE program and offered their own
experiences in these programs. Their talk included requirements for the
programs, the benefits of different research programs, and plenty of
advice on how to go about choosing the right one for you! Robert Simione
and Ken Zhao also presented their wonderful experiences with NYU's SURE
program. The Powerpoint presentation from the meeting can be downloaded
below: [Undergraduate Research
Talk ](http://math.nyu.edu/math_club/Undergrad_Research_Talk.pdf)

> Google Chrome Users, please set your Adobe Reader settings to read
> within browser or click "Save As" to save the pdf to your desktop.

### Past Colloquia & Events: Fall 2008

**Tuesday, December 9^th^, 2008 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM,***Room 201, Warren
Weaver Hall * *Abstract: *The Mathematics Society held a final
Math-themed Party for Fall Semester 2008. **Tuesday, November 25^th^,
2008 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM, Movie Night** *Room 201, Warren Weaver Hall *
*Abstract: *The Mathematics Society held a movie night showing the film
"Stand and Deliver". **November 17^th^, 2008 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM, Movie
Night: "Good Will Hunting"** *Room 201, Warren Weaver Hall *
*Abstract: *The Mathematics Society held a movie night showing the film,
"Good Will Hunting". **November 11^th^, 2008 7:00 PM - 9:00 PM,
Registration Advisement** *Room 613, Warren Weaver Hall *
*Abstract: *The Mathematics Society held an meeting to assist students
in preparation for registering courses for Spring 2009. **October
28^th^, Math Mischief Night** *Room 613, Warren Weaver Hall *
*Abstract: *The Mathematics Society held a pumpkin carving party event
to celebrate Halloween. Three pies of pizza, a couple bottles of soda,
and two pumpkin pies were provided for all to enjoy. Additionally, there
were be pumpkins along with necessary materials provided for carving.
This was strictly a fun event to celebrate Halloween and for everyone to
relax from the midterms. As usual, math was provided as a bonus!
**October 21^st^, Vedic Mathematics Seminar ** *Kimmel Student Center,
Room 910 * *Presenter: *Shri Digant Dash *Abstract: *A presentation on
ancient mathematics from India was given. *About the Presenter: *Shri
Digant Dash has extensively traveled in more than 30 states of United
States conducting many Yoga and Vedic Math Workshops. He is also
instrumental in organizing seminars and workshops on Vedic Math for
Middle School and High School students as well as their parents. He
completed his B.E in Electronics and Tele-communication from UCE Burla
in 1995. He worked as a software engineer in Bangalore for Hindustan
Aeronautics Limited, Motorola, and Philips, as well as in San Jose, CA
for Quicklogic, Xilinx and Cisco Systems. He earned his MS Degree in
Engineering from SJSU in 2005.   **October 17^th^, S.U.R.E.
Presentations ** *Room 109, Warren Weaver Hall*
*Abstract: *Undergraduate NYU students present their research to faculty
and fellow students. **October 14^th^, Trip to the Brookhaven National
Laboratory** *Sponsors: *The Engineering Society & Mathematics Society
*Abstract: *Although originally built as a nuclear research center, it
is now a research facility that specializes in nuclear and high-energy
physics, nonproliferation, neurosciences and medical imaging, structural
biology, physics and chemistry of materials, and environmental and
energy research. For more information, please go to their website.
[Brookhaven National Laboratory Website](http://www.bnl.gov/) **October
7^th^, Faculty Colloquia ** *Room 405, Silver Center* The Society of
Engineering Students hosted a large Faculty Colloquia which is open to
many clubs including ours. *Presenter:* Professor David Hogg – Director
of Undergrad Studies in Physics Dept *Topic:* An Astrophysics 'Theory of
Everything': All of the Astronomical Imaging Ever Taken
*Abstract:* Professor Hogg’s research has involved the invention and use
of remarkable engineering to do his research in astrophysics. So this
presentation is an ideal one for students specializing in the sciences
and in engineering. **September 30^th^, Faculty Colloquia ** *Room 613,
Warren Weaver Hall* *Presenter: *Professor Shafer Smith
*Topic:* Geophysical Fluid Dynamics *Abstract:* Geophysical fluid
dynamics is an extremely diverse interdisciplinary field spanning
mathematics, physics and computer science. The atmosphere and the oceans
are extremely complex fluid systems that can be analyzed with modern-day
computational methods and partial differential equations. In particular,
non-linear interactions between waves and turbulence as well as
large-scale flow provide many open questions that affect our long-term
environmental transformation, something that is surprisingly not very
well understood. A background to the culture and Mathematics
advancements made in the field of geophysical fluid dynamics, with many
famous and important contributions made by Peter Lax and Courant,
himself, will be discussed. Finally, an example of current research
undertaken in geostrophic turbulence will be presented. **September
16^th^, Movie Night ** Room 613, Warren Weaver Hall *Abstract: *This
will the first movie night of the fall semester. We'll showing the
recent hit movie "21". Please come at 7PM sharp so we can end at 9PM.
**September 9^th^, 2008-2009 Ice Breaker ** Room 613, Warren Weaver Hall
*Abstract: *We broke the ice, math style! With an abundant amount of fun
activities, we kicked off the beginning of the 2008-2009 academic year
with a bang. New and old members mingled in one room with a common
interest of mathematics. We hope everyone enjoyed and continues to
participate to the fullest!

### Past Colloquia 2007-2008:

**April 9th**, Professor Albert Novikoff (Courant) Tangential Polar
Coordinates: A re-discovery and/or a new proof Abstract:In connection
with a 19th century theorem (Holditch’s Theorem) I stumbled on a
generalization of plane polar coordinates which is based, in modern
terms, on a moving frame (classical polar coordinates, by contrast, use
a fixed origin). The corresponding area formula is given a “modern”
proof, and generalized to a theorem in three dimensions. Many questions
are still unanswered. **March 5th**, Courant Instructor David Bindel
(Courant) Understanding Resonances Abstract: Every time we hear a piano
or a bell, we observe a resonance. We also use resonances whenever we
play with an LED or talk on a cell phone. What is a resonance, and how
can we understand resonant systems Mathematicsly? In this talk, I try to
answer these questions, at the same time showing a few of the beautiful
connections between the theory of resonances and linear algebra, complex
analysis, differential equations, and mechanics. I will also share a few
examples from one of my favorite applications, microscope mechanical
systems that could lead to revolutionary design changes in the next
generation of cell phones. **February 20th**, Professor Charles Peskin
(Courant) Muscle and Blood: Mathematics Modeling and Computer Simulation
of the Heart and the Circulation Abstract: This talk will discuss some
examples of Mathematics modeling in cardiovascular physiology. Beginning
at the beginning, our first example will be the fetal circulation and
how it automatically changes its configuration at and immediately after
birth. We also discuss the Mathematics anatomy (differential geometry)
of a heart valve, and the fluid dynamics of blood in the cardiac
chambers, a problem of fluid-structure interaction. Numerical results
will be shown as computer animations of the beating heart. **February
5th**, Professor Aaron Tenenbein (Stern) Mathematics Applications in
Actuarial Science Abstract: Actuarial Science is the field that applies
Mathematics techniques to problems in the insurance industry. This area
is sometimes known as risk management. The talk will discuss some of the
problems that actuaries face and the Mathematics techniques that are
used to solve these problems. Other topics will involve the courses that
will help train actuaries, the professional certification process
(examination process) and the career opportunities in the actuarial
profession. **November 15th**, Dean Dan Stein (CAS) *Interdisciplinary
Colloquia* The current Dean of Science of CAS, Dean Dan Stein, presented
his current research projects and his interdisciplinary approach to
education. His research includes noisy non-equilibrium dynamics,
disordered and random particles, and biophysics. The event was open to
all clubs and members. **October 23rd**, Professor Robert Kohn (Courant)
What Can You do with a Math Degree? A degree in mathematics provides a
launch pad for many different career paths. Options after graduation
include (a) immediate employment, (b) professional masters programs, (c)
PhD study in mathematics, (d) PhD study in a related field such as
statistics, operations research, or computational science. I will
discuss long-term-planning issues (such as how to choose among these
options), and also practical issues (such as how to choose a graduate
program and maximize your chance of acceptance). This discussion will be
useful for students at any stage (not just seniors), since your goals
should influence your choice of electives. **September 18th,** Robert
Simione (Undergraduate) *Cost-Benefit Analysis between Voting and
Abstaining* A brief look into the cost towards an individual when going
through the voting process. Taken from a probability point of view, both
voting and abstaining are analyzed, finding which would result in a
lower opportunity cost to the voter.  

### Past Events 2007-2008:

**April 30th**, End of the Year Party! Room 1013, Courant This was the
last meeting of the NYU academic year for Math Club. We brought nice big
chocolatey cake, took several pictures, enjoyed many conversations,
and--of course--played SET. Thank you all for a great semester and a
fantastic year! **April 23rd**, Elections Room 1013, Courant We held
elections for the upcoming year of 2008-2009. With several interested
and capable candidates, we were able to select a great officer linup for
next year by democratic votes. Thank you all for attending and please
continue to support the club. **April 16th**, Math Club Outing Room
1013, Courant Several dedicated young and regular Math Club members
banded together on a trip to Yalato, where we each picked up our own
frozen yogurt, sorbet, or gelato. We all returned to the cozy Courant
building to talk about random math and non-math related topics. Overall,
we all agreed we should do this once again next semester. **April 2nd**,
"What-Class-Should-I-Take?" Part Deux Room 1013, Courant At a week and a
half before Registration Week, we assembled the various course
experiences from the upperclassmen and had it available in one room for
anyone and everyone needing peer advice. This included Mathematics, MAP,
and other subject courses. Thank you all for coming and attend next
year's event! **March 13th**, Pi Day Party, 4-8 PM Room 613, Courant
This was the largest event of the year. We severd a variety of pies, ice
cream, and milk. Several of the NYU Math Club members, math majors, and
even Cooper Union students enjoyed the party to celebrate the much-loved
irrational number, pi. We held a pi recitation contest, and Kevin Cheung
won with 28 digits! Congrats! We also watched the spectacular
action-packed movie, "300". The Greek letter pi and the Greek Spartans
collided, ending the party in a success! Thank you all for supporting us
and coming to the event. Enjoy the break. **February 27th**, Math Club
Movie Night Round 2 Room 1013, Courant Last semester, the Math Club
Movie Night (showing "Pi") was a success. So, clearly, we wanted another
one. We watched "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" and learned one
or two things, such as the simple answer to life, the universe, and
everything. **January 30th**, Math and Art Room 1013, Courant At this
first meeting of the new semester, we introduced famous math-related
artworks by Escher, fractals, and the Mobius strip. We brought out
construction paper, crayons and markers, and each member created a
Mathematics design or phrase that could be put into the club's T-shirt
image. While creating individual artwork, the members introduced
themselves, socialized, and enjoyed the wonderful New York style pizza.
As expected, the meeting was a blast, and we're looking forward to
larger and more enthusiastic meetings! **December 11th**: Fun Filled
Final Fiesta Room 613, Courant At this final meeting of the fall
semester, we ended on a great note. Not only did we celebrate the end of
classes and the semester's rigorous workload, but we also welcomed the
new upcoming year. We played games, met new faces, ate ice cream and
pizza, and truly enjoyed our last 2007 meeting.**** **December 1st**:
William Lowell Putnam Exam Room 102, Courant On this day, 19 of the
bravest undergraduates dared to take the infamous Putnam Exam. After
several months of preparation, thanks to the great Professor Sonal Jain
and Graduate Student Katrina Bellova, the journey ended with this 6 hour
test. We all did our best and are awaiting the results. Results should
be out in March. Please check out the Links page to find out what this
exam involves and if you want to participate next December. **November
20th**: Math & CompSci Major Thanksgiving Community Service Project
Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corporation Along with the
math department, computer science department, and NYU's Office of
Community Service, we'll be preparing Thanksgiving meals, putting up
decorations, and doing cleanup for over 200 homeless individuals at the
Grand Central Neighborhood Social Services Corporation
([link](http://www.volunteernyc.org/org/959315.html)). Students gave
back this holiday season to those who are less fortunate.**** **November
6th**: What-Class-Should-I-Take? Night Room 613, Courant With the
confusing list of classes available, underclassmen occasionally need
some guidance. At this event, upperclassmen advised and suggested
courses which were both enjoyable and educational. Part Deux will be
coming this spring semester. **October 30th**: Math Club Movie Night,
Movie: "Pi" Room 613, Courant Taking a look at this all-time-classic, we
enjoyed the first ever Math Club Movie Night with "Pi". Look forward to
the next few showings of other math movies in 2008.**** **October
26th**: S.U.R.E. 2007 Presentations Room 1314, Courant The Summer
Undergraduate Research Experience participants gave their final
presentations on their laborious work over the 2007 summer. Each student
gave a 10-15 minute talk with Q&A on the field he or she delved into the
past few months. Topics ranged from dynamical systems to abstract
algebra. **October 20th**: Mid-Hudson Math Conference for Undergraduates
Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, NY Recommended by Professor Richard
Pollack of Courant, a group of NYU Math Club members traveled to see
this conference. The beautiful and charming scenery and the several
talks were captivating. **October 16th**: First Annual Math Club Mixer
or Party or Something Room 613, Courant As the event name implies, the
members of Math Club got to know each other. We introduced ourselves to
the group and played games and ate food. If you were not able to attend,
look forward to the upcoming parties of 2008! **September 25th**: Game
Night Room 614, Courant

### Past Colloquia from 2005:

There is an international projecto to develop thermonuclear reactors
that employ magnetic fusion of hydrogen into helium as it occurs in the
stars. Mathematcial models and computer codes being applied to this
problem at NYU will be described. **April 28th**, Professor Dodis
(Courant) *Zero-knowledge Cryptography* I will give a brief introduction
to zero-knowledge proofs. Such proof allow one to prove the validity of
some assertion without leaking any information beyond the fact the
assertion is valid. For example, we will see how to prove to a blind
person that color exist, without giving him any clue "WHAT HAPPEN:".
More Mathematicsly, we will prove that a graph has a hamiltonian cycle
without giving away anything about the actual cycle! Or that one knows
how to decrypt a message, without giving any information about the
decryption! **April 14th**, Alex Barnett (Courant Instructor) *Drums and
Quantum Chaos* Abstract: Finding the normal modes of an elastic membrane
stretched across a rigid frame of a given shape is known as the 'drum
problem'. These modes are given by eigenfunctions of the Laplacian
operator with certain boundary conditions. At high frequencies the
wavelength becomes short compared to the size of the drum, and new
\`semiclassical' phenomena emerge. I will discuss the ray quantization
of Einstein-Brillouin-Keller, and \`quantum chaos' which results from
chaotic ray dynamics. I will overview simple numerical methods for the
solution of these modes at high frequency, and discuss applications to
electromagnetics, optics (laser cavity design), and quantum physics.
**March 24th**: Professor Ben Arous (Courant) *Random Matrices*: A First
Introduction I will give a gentle introduction to the following
question: what is the typical spectrum of a large hermitian matrix
chosen at random? I will explain briefly how this question arose
historically in statistics and physics, and the more recently
established links with some combinatorics questions. **March 4th**:
Professor Esteban Tabak (Courant) *Internal Waves in the Atmosphere and
Ocean* Unlike the familiar surface waves at the interface betweenwater
and air, most of the waves that surround us are invisible, since they
consist of oscillations of layers of air (in the atmosphere) or water
(in the ocean) of slightly different density, yet identical color. These
"internal waves", however, are much more relevant to the climate than
surface waves.In this talk, we'll explore the Mathematics and physical
structure of the internal wave field, which includes a number of
significant open problems. **February 24th**: Professor Ben Arous
(Courant) *Randomly Walking on the Hypercube* This talk will introduce
the topic of random walks and Markov Chains, through the example of the
random walk on the hypercube. Almost no prerequisites are needed.
**February 10th**: Professor Jon Kettenring (Drew University) *The
Practice of Cluster Analysis* Cluster analysis is one of the main
methodologies for analyzing multivariate statistical data. While not as
neat and tidy as other methods, its use is widespread and growing
rapidly. The goal of the talk will be to introduce cluster analysis,
document its growth, provide several examples of recent applications,
and highlight both good and risky practices. It will conclude with
suggestions for how the current practice of clusters could be improved.
No background in statistics will be presumed for this talk. **February
3rd**: Professor Charles Peskin (Courant) *Muscle and Blood: Mathematics
Modeling and Computer Simulation of the Beating Heart* The mechanics of
the heart involves the interaction of the muscular heart walls, the
flexible heart valve leaflets, and the blood that flows in the cardiac
chambers. This talk will describe a Mathematics formulation and
computational method for such problems of **December 2**: Professor
Sylvain Cappell (Courant) *Classification of Manifolds* A classification
theory for manifolds is a 'holy grail' of mathemaitcs. This was achieved
for two-dimensional manifolds in the 19th century. An approach called
"surgery theory," beginning in the 1960s, has produced great results in
higher dimensions (5 and up). Techniques from Mathematics physics have
in the last 25 years led to progress in dimension 4. We will survey how
diferent dimensions lead to different approached. Each with their own
flavor. **November 18**: Professor Richard Pollack (Courant) *Problems
in Discrete Geometry* There are a lot of fun and deep problems that
arise in Discrete Geometry, the solutions of which are very elegant.
Professor Pollack is going to describe of few of them: Sylvester's
problem, Vincensini's problem (which has no solution), Helly's theorem,
Hadwiger's theorem and some others if time remains. There are absolutely
no prerequisites for this lecture beyond high school geometry.
**November 4**: Professor Kit Fine (Philosophy Dept.) *The Continuum
Hypothesis* In the late 1800s Georg Cantor devised a way of relating
infinite sets by trying to find a one-to-one and onto correspondence (or
bijection) between them. For example, the size (or cardinality) of the
set of integers is equal to the size of the set of rational numbers,
because, surprisingly, it is possible to create a bijection between
them. However, no bijection exists between the set of integers and real
numbers. You might ask, is there a set whose cardinality lies between
the integers/rationals and real numbers (the continuum)? The answer:
nobody knows! In 1936, Kurt Godel (famous for his incompleteness
theorem) proved that the continuum hypothesis (i.e., there are no sets
with cardinality lying between the integers and real numbers) is
consistent with our standard axioms of set theory. In 1964, Paul Cohen
proved that the negation of the continuum hypothesis is consistent with
the standard axioms of set theory. So the continuum hypothesis is
somehow both true and false, or neither true nor false; its
verifiability cannot be decided upon unless we introduce new axioms.
**October 26th**, Professor Childress (Courant) *Flapping Flight*
Discussion of some of the fluid dynamics of flapping flight of birds and
insests, both forward and hovering flight, and contrasting this with
mechanisms of propulsion by micro-organisms. The transition to flapping
flight will be discussed in the light of observations of a small marine
pteropod possessing both cilia and wings. The principles will be
illustrated through experiments performed in the Courant Institute's
Applied Mathematics Laboratory. **November 9th**, Professor Garabedian
(Courant) *Mathematics Theory of Fusion Reactors* For events prior to
Fall 2004,
click [here](http://www.math.nyu.edu/math_club/eventsPast.html) for the
old site.

### Past Events:

Enjoy the summer everyone! For those of you who are not too busy during
the month of August, consider attending [MathFest 2005
f](http://www.maa.org/mathfest/mf05_frontpage.html)rom August 4th to
August 6th. Contact me at EmpressofMath@gmail.com if you are interested
by July 12th since registration online ends on July 25th. The math
department is willing to fund a small group to make the trip, so let me
know as soon as possible. Did I mention there will be a fun hot air
balloon ride at MathFest in addition to the math? **April 26th**: Rm.
513 *Graduate School and Other Opportunities for Math Majors* We're
going to have an interactive talk on applying to graduate schools and
other avenues of exploration for math majors after college. There will
be a few people to give you their perspectives: Tamar Arnon, Professor
Varadhan, Jean Steiner and a graduate student. Tamar is the Assistant
Director of Student Affairs for the graduate school, and while she
doesn't make admission decisions, she sits in on many of the discussions
that do, and does see and organize the applications. Professor Varadhan
is a member of the fellowship committee, and is one of the faculty who
makes decisions regarding admissions. Jean Steiner is a post-doc student
who'll talk about other possibilities for math majors besides more
school.

### Past Events from 2004 and Prior

### Monday, September 15th 2003, 7:00 PM: First Math Club Meeting, and "The Subway Problem"

#### Professor Joseph Bak (City College)

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1314 This talk will be concerned with the
problem of finding a way to make the most possible room for everybody in
a limited space. The talk includes applications of the pigeon-hole
principle, the method of variations, and a way to define fractional and
even irrational dimensions. Only high-school mathematics is required, so
don't be intimidated by the preceeding sentance.

### Thursday, April 24th, 7:00 PM: Traffic Modeling

#### Professor Esteban Tabak

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1314 Looked from afar, cars moving on roads
resemble water flowing through rivers or pipes. This analogy goes deep
into the Mathematics structure of the models describing traffic and
fluid flow. This talk will describe some such models, and use them both
to understand real life situations, such as the congestion waves we
often experience on highways, and to develop an appreciation of the
mathematics of fluid flow.

### Thursday, April 3rd, 6:30PM: Rubik's Cube

#### Professor Mel Hausner

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1314 A discussion of Rubik's cube and it's
relationship to elementary group theory. No prior knowledge is required.
During the course of this lecture, you will see Professor Hausner
reassemble a Rubik's cube into it's original pure state (with
explanations). Possibly, he will fail and be mortified. In either case,
expect a great talk! Bring your own cube if you have one.

Check out [Rubik's Online](http://www.rubiks.com/) and their [cube
solutions](http://www.rubiks.com/cubesolutionother.html) page.

### Thursday, January 30th, 7:00 PM: Introduction to Knot Theory

#### Professor Sylvain Cappell

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1314 For about two hundred years mathematicians
have been developing a great variety of approaches to finding invariants
of knots and links, with a hope of someday using these to achieve a
classification. I will briefly discuss some old and new invariants and
their roles, geometrical interpretations and applications.

### Friday, December 6th, 3:30 PM to 6:30 PM: VIGRE Summer Research

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1302 About 14 people did summer research under
NYU's VIGRE grant last summer and they gave brief talks on what they did
at this meeting. Also, there was something of a social outing
afterwards.

### Sunday, November 24th: Natural History Museum

The math club funded a trip to the Natural History Museum to see the
special exhibit on Albert Einstein.

### Thursday, October 24th, 7:00 PM: Applying to Graduate School

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1302 Tamar Anon and Professor Varadhan, as well
as two first year Courant graduate students, will join us to discuss
applying to math graduate schools. While Tamar Anon does not make
admissions decisions, she sits in on many of the discussions that do,
and does see and organize the applications. Professor Varadhan is one of
the faculty members who does make decisions regarding admissions.

### Thursday, October 3, 7:00 PM: Surprises in the Global Greenhouse?

#### Professor David Holland

Warren Weaver Hall Room 1302 There exists ample evidence that the
climatic state of our planet has undergone dramatic change in the recent
past. Such changes include both cooler and warmer air temperatures and
oscillations in global sea level of more than 100 meters. Over the last
few decades, scientific attention and concern have been drawn to the
possible impact that humankind may be exerting on the climate system --
most notably through the influence of greenhouse gases. In response to
this concern, numerical models of the climate system have been created
and used to make projections of the climate for this century. These
complex models are based on the application of Mathematics and
computational techniques to fundamental physical laws. In this talk, a
major shortcoming of these models is examined, namely their
representation of the Antarctic ice sheet -- the single largest
reservoir of freshwater on earth. This ice sheet could partially or
totally collapse under the stress of increased atmospheric greenhouse
gases. The future behavior of this ice sheet thus represents a wild card
in the evolution of the climate. It also presents an exciting and
challenging opportunity for innovation and application of Mathematics
and computational techniques. Addendum: also check out Courant's [Center
for Atmosphere Ocean Science](http://math.nyu.edu/caos/index.html)

### Wednesday, September 25, 1:15 PM: Organizational meeting

Warren Weaver Hall Room 613

### Friday, September 13, 1:00 PM: Primality testing after Agrawal, Kayal and Saxen

Warren Weaver Hall Room 101 The problem of whether it is possible to
tell quickly if a large number is prime has stood open for a long time.
Recently two Indian undergraduate students along with their professor
showed that it is possible. We will explain their elementary and
ingeneous algorithm.
