---
title: NYUMS Meeting 2/28
author: 
description: 
created: 
mtime: 
---

NYUMS MEETING: 2/21, 7:15 PM, WWH ROOM 201

Hi Everyone,

We hope you all enjoyed the talk last week!  This week we have two exciting things to cover! First of all, we will have an info session about CSplash (keep reading to find out more) and we will be holding the election for Diversity Chair in our club.  Also as a reminder, there is still time to sign up for the Brown SUMS Conference so if you are interested in attending please sign up asap! Food and drink will be provided.

1. CSplash Info. Session

2. Diversity Chair Election

3. Brown SUMS Conference Trip Sign-up

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________

1. CSplash Info. Session

WHEN: THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28th, 7:15 PM 

WHERE: WWH (Warren Weaver Hall) ROOM 201 

WHAT: The president of CSplash, Mark H. Kim, will give a talk about CSplash, explaining what it is, etc.  In additon, he is seeking volunteers or teachers who are willing to particiapte in CSplash.  If you are interested, come prepared with questions to ask about this event!

______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

 2. Diversity Chair Election

WHEN: THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28th, 7:15 PM

WHERE: WWH (Warren Weaver Hall) ROOM 201

WHAT: We will be holding an election for Diveristy Chair.  There are 6 candidates for the position.  The election provess will consist of: 1) Each candidate giving a 2 minute speech and 2) Their previously written personal statements will be projected on the screen for everyone to see.  Voting will occur after each candidate has given their speech.  Further instruction will be given the day of election.  

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________

3. Brown Sums Conference Trip Sign-up

WHAT: The Brown Sums Conference is on March 9, 2013. If you would like to attend, [lease sign up by Thursday, Februray 28th, 2013 at the latest.  (This is solely a recommendation given that if you attend you will be rooming with Brown students and it takes time to pair up host students and yourself)  Last year we travelled on Friday, attending the conference on Saturday, and returend on Sunday thus staying overnight two nights.  Once you register for the conference, please send an email John Yoon, the Vice President of NYUMS, at jyoon0529@gmail.com, so we can have a count of the number of people attending.
The website for registration is https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dFEyeXdSdlJVMFN5T3JldkpNVnFwelE6MQ#gid=0. It takes less than 5 minutes to fill out the registration form. 
We will have Brown Sums Conference Trip meeting on Thursday, March 7, 2013at 7:15 PM (our regular NYUMS meeting time) for those of you who signed up.  

_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________


We look forward to seeing you at our meetings. If you’d like to learn more about our group, join us on facebook or visit or webpage at:

[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/pages/NYUMathematicsSociety)

[Math Department](http://www.facebook.com/nyumathematics)

Strength in Numbers! Have a great week!

Cheers,

NYUMS
